---
layout: post
title: "My Accutane Journey"
date: 2019-01-14 
tags: featured 
image: /assets/article_images/accutane.jpg
---
“You should try taking dairy out of your diet” - like I really want to give up cheese or fro-yo, I already stopped drinking milk!
“Have you tried Pro-Active?”- yes, been on Proactive since the sixth grade
“Try this antibiotic ointment” - says the doctor that has already prescribed me this 2 times in my life already to no prevail
“Your skin doesn’t look very good what have you been doing different?” - nothing mom I’m just not wearing makeup
“Well I still think you’re beautiful” - says my supportive boyfriend

As much as everyone meant well, it was always frustrating hearing repeats of advice that I knew wouldn’t work for me. I felt that I had tried everything in the book and spent 10 years fighting a battle that I lost every time. When I heard about accutane I was desperate to try it out. Of course I heard about all of the dangers and side effects - dry skin, birth defects if I got pregnant on it, increased depression, and in rare cases, IBS. But I knew it had worked for people, and thought it might be worth it for me. What’s a little dry skin right?

# About Me 
My name is Camille, I’m a sophomore in college at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, and I’m studying Animal Science, hoping to make it into Veterinary School. I’m really involved, and I work hard, and I love to have fun! I’m just like a lot of 20 year-olds; I eat junk, go out on the weekends, get sweaty at the gym a few times a week and I get really stressed out - things that are common causes of acne outbreaks.
With or without these things in my lifestyle, there isn’t a time in my life that I remember not having acne. I got my period at age 10 and the rest of puberty didn’t fall far behind, so naturally, my forehead began to sprout the first of many craters. I became insecure about it pretty quickly - mostly because I didn’t see anyone else with the same problem yet. But even when I finally did see everyone else catch up, no one else’s ever seemed as severe. Friends would complain about one zit when I always had 12 more on top of blackheads. Life didn’t feel very fair to say the least!
After a few too many unsuccessful trials at a dermatologist along with home remedies, I was SO excited to finally be allowed to try Proactive after staring at the ads on TV for a few years. I used it right up until I started Accutane. I felt that it was always a good cleanser and definitely controlled the excess oils and sebum I had during puberty, but when it came down to the actual acne, yes, it cleared up things here and there, but it was no match for my monthly breakouts and cystic blobs i always had under my skin. My face would only get to about 60% pimple-free at any given time. I don’t think I can say that Proactive doesnt work, but more that it didn’t work for all of my needs which were more internal than I had anticipated. Even after adding birth control to my life,(I will talk all about birth control in another blog!) my face didn’t experience any drastic changes. I felt like I always knew it wasn’t just puberty or hormones as everyone else told me for comfort, assuming it was a phase and that it would eventually end. 
Genetically things just didn’t line up for me. My beautiful mom from the Philippines has always had problems with it and to this day she still struggles with it - now a mother of a teenager and myself, a college student. She always tried her best to be supportive. Makeup was a big problem for both of us - seeming to make things worse when all we wanted was to make it look like it wasn’t there in the public eye. I remember she took me to Macy’s to get my makeup done with their acne treatment line, and she me bought everything the woman painted on me. Unfortunately after a few days we both noticed it made everything flare up even more. (Not discrediting their line, but simply saying that it didn’t work for me.) Up until now I’ve only been able to use Garnier BB Cream as a “foundation” or on special occasions, Neutrogena’s oil-free foundation - to which I still broke out using either one, just less than many other products. Even still, with a face of makeup I could always still see pimples sticking out or scars somehow always showing through my concealer. Now being on accutane I couldn’t wait to be able to try new makeup products like highlighters and blushes at the end of my journey!


# Day 1
I was so excited and so ready to do this. It was early into my sophomore year second semester February I believe, My doctor only saw me for a few minutes before I did my final blood work test before I was approved. I also had to answer a questionnaire online with an iPledge account I was required to make. I was very confused trying to do it online, so I actually ended up doing over an automated phone call. I’m 5 feet tall and weigh 125 pounds, and I was prescribed two 30 mg pills per day, 60 mg total. It says on my pack to take one pill 2 times per day, but my doctor said I could take both at one time. Either way was fine. 

# Week 1
Within the first week my lips started to chap, specifically the corners and outer edges. I felt like I had to apply chapstick more times a day than usual. I just used cherry Chapstick brand. The pink tint seemed a little more invisible when I would cake it on my mouth. I liked this brand because it felt thick and almost waxy. It just lasted on my lips a lot longer than others felt that were more oily such as Babylips or even Blistex which I loved to use prior to Accutane. And not only did my face feel dry and flakey, but mostly tight like after spending a day at the beach in the sun and having the salt water dry your skin out - I couldn’t have imagined taking this during a cold and dry New England winter!
My daily routine would be to wash my face with Pond’s Cold Cream Cleanser in the morning and at night, I’d massage it with my hands and I would even wash my lips with it. I’d usually wet a washcloth to gently exfoliate the flaking stuff off and then coat my face with a generous amount of the same cleanser and let it sit for a while after I washed it this stuff worked miracles, because having my face be so dry often made other moisturizers sting on my face such as my Proactive green tea moisturizer. If I didn’t have time I would just let it sit as long as I could and massage it in or just moisturize with it as soon as I woke up. I put some in a mini container to apply to my face any time during the day that my face felt dry at school which was very often - I couldn’t leave for anything without my Pond’s and my cherry chaptstick. Yes, it is technically a cleanser, but I’ve been using it for a long time and its relatively cheap. Every time I applied it I felt instant relief. Everyone said to try Aquaphor but I never tried it. Pond’s worked very very well for me! 

# 1 Month
Skipping a couple of weeks because it was just a progression of dry skin and lips. Specifically at the week marking 1 month of being on the medication, I started waking up in the middle of the night with an itchy scalp. And I mean ITCHY!! It woke me up and I could not ignore it. I think just rubbing my head on my pillow at night was enough to irritate it. Also I woke up after that first night I had a lot of dandruff! Nothing fungal or anything like that you could tell it was just from extreme dryness. I tried to do a conditioning mask on my scalp but that didn’t work I was still getting itchy at night and it just kept getting worse. Three days later I took my boyfriend’s car to Target and bought Head and Shoulders Itchy Scalp Relief and prayed for the best. My scalp was so dry and irritated that when I first put it in my hair it sort felt like it was burning or tingling. I did my best to deal with it and let it sit in my hair for a while and felt much better when I got out of the shower and I didn’t itch the following night. A few nights later I woke up at 3 am with an itchy scalp again and I just had to take a shower to stop the itch. I’m planned on mentioning it to my dermatologist next time I paid her a visit in about 3 weeks. Monthly visits for blood work and updates on side effects were important and required. I had to drive about 2 hours from school to see her every month. 

## 1 Month emotions (tenses still in present)
I was diagnosed with depression in high school when I was 17. I went to therapy which helped but now I just feel like I don’t have the time. I never took medication although it was recommended to me, I’ve just always been worried about how much it would really change me or anything like that. I feel that it really accumulated more since I started taking Accutane. I found that I would be more sensitive to things people would say to me. The other night I just had an episode crying for 4 hours with no true reason. I find myself on autopilot sometimes; reacting to people that I’m talking to, but in my head it's almost like I’m another person watching it all happen, or like I’m watching my life happen without actually doing anything and not truly feeling the emotions I’m expressing outward. It’s weird. The gym has been so helpful. It’s crazy, I was never truly a gym person until I started taking this medicine. I find that if I don’t go to the gym for more than 3 days apart, I feel more depressed than usual and it is such a force to finally get me back into the gym again. I never want to go, but when I do I mentally feel so much more clear and I forget how I could’ve been so sad before. I just go on the elliptical for at least 30 minutes and watch whatever is on the TV in front of me. Writing my blog was actually an idea i came up with to distract myself from my emotions, and maybe writing them down will help. We’re all caught up now, from this point on, my entries will be the present; what’s going on now in my life. 